The universe is vast and awe-inspiring.
Earth and life on it are amazingly complex.
How did it all get here?
The Bible book of Genesis says that there is a creator.
But the account is often misunderstood or even dismissed as a myth.
Is what the Bible says about the origin of the universe plausible?
Scientists estimate that the universe is 14 billion years old.
This implies that the universe, including Earth, had a beginning.
The Bible agrees. Genesis 1, 1 reads,
In the beginning God created the heavens and the earth.
The account does not say when or how the universe began.
Rather, it focuses on the creative process that took place on Earth over six periods of time,
which the Bible calls days.
Were these six 24-hour days as many believed?
No.
The Hebrew word used in the Bible for day can refer to various lengths of time.
Genesis even summarizes the six days of creation as one day.
The day that Jehovah God made Earth and Heaven.
Each day in Genesis chapter 1 must have spanned extremely long periods of time.
The account's perspective is also important.
The writer describes the creative periods as they would have appeared to an observer on the Earth.
Had someone been there, he would have seen events that started in one period,
and then progress into the following periods.
Light penetrates the atmosphere to reveal alternating day and night.
Earth was covered with water, and vapor filled the air.
The dense clouds lifted from the waters that covered the Earth, forming an expansive sky between them.
Water receded to uncover dry ground, and the first plants appeared.
The atmosphere cleared further to reveal the sun and the moon.
God created living creatures in the sea and flying creatures above.
And in the last period, God created land animals and humans.
In harmony with the Genesis account, the Bible says,
Of course, every house is constructed by someone,
but the one who constructed all things is God.
The Bible does not speak in scientific detail,
but its account of creation is logical and reasonable.